Adventure Game in C++

Apartment, gas station, cemetery, liquor store, library, arcade,

Need to implement UI of some kind. An inventory.

Inventory stutter when moving. Solved draw inventory outside of beginMode2d(camera) endMode2d()

NPCs. Edit the man animation to look different. Make a different struct called NPC. The color of the NPC should be blue grey to blend in with the background and make the player character stand out
from the crowd, literally. Maybe we don't need a struct nah we do.

I've decided it's going to be a class saved in a separate file. NPC.h as a header file. and NPC.cpp as the code that runs the animation and updates and renders the NPC.
It will use one big sprite sheet. The sheet will be laid out like a grid. each row of the grid will be a different animation. then we can iterate the grid and grid[0][0] would be idle
then grid[1][0] would be walk and so on.

Laptop computer instead of typewriter. Clicking it brings up an interface. Check your emails.

antiques shop interior
gas station interior
cemetery interior

Homeless sprite
business man sprite x
woman sprite x


zombie NPC x
revolver x
aim animation x
shoot animation x
sound x

Shotgun x 
interiors art
homeless NPC

drug dealer NPC

owl hoot sound on road
reload animation x
footsteps <- just came to me,  works perfect x

UI above player car. destinations. Cemetery, work, ect. x
UI showing money x
UI calendar showing day month year x

NPCs Interaction. Standing next to a NPC and clicking on them will make them stop moving and a dialog box appears above their head. Randomized speech will be displayed. Certain NPCs can sell you drugs. 

Police? Police will beat you up if you click on them more than once. First they say "move along". Then they beat you up and you wake up back at the apartment the next day. 

work:
	the car moves forward out of the screen, fade to black. Fade back in car is back at it's spot and you are 100 dollars richer. 

Tavern:
	Take the road to the tavern. Meet story characters of some kind. Buy a drink and we will apply a drunk shader. What's the story? People at the tavern tell rumors of a ghost at the Cemetery. 

Draw a 1980s style phone next to the laptop

Game turns to a zombie apocalypse on the year 2000. Guns are allowed on the street. Zombies chase NPCs and turn them into more zombies.

What is the game about in the mean time. A fetch quest for a special NPC. Hidden drug dealer interaction. The dealer NPC will sell you drugs for 500 dollars. DMT. Apply a water shader to the entire screen. Make it wavy plus a warped CRT effect. 

River City Nights. Rad City Blues. Zombie City Blues. Zed City Blues. Zed City Nights. City Nights 

if player gets more than 1000 pixels away from the apartment in any direction, the player can then sleep again. Or if they travel the road they can sleep. You can't just go sleep to work to sleep to work. You would need to walk around or travel to reset it. This will not be explained to the player. x

interactable NPCs. Just try to make them stop when clicked on. Need a hit box. they already have a hitbox. Make sure you can't click on zombies and talk to them. if interactingtexture(hitbox, mousepos)

test if you can click on zombies

Added shaders. Drunk shader, Glow shader, and glitch shader. Glow shader runs when you take drugs and lasts until you sleep. Glitch shader runs when zombies are spawning for dramatic effect. Drunk shader will run when you drink. Drunk shader overrides glow shader. 

Need to add liquor store. Replace antiques store. You can buy whiskey. Maybe just a buy menu, no interior. 

Police man x

Need something new to work on. Another NPC? Another layer to the parallax?, Liquor store interior. Empty lot. x

another NPC:
	Another female. woman2 
	Homeless man. x

added empty lot. along with hobo NPC. Hobo will have some useful information for the player. Will warn the player of the coming zombie appacolypse. gives the player the shovel? shotgun? 

The Shovel:
	Can be used at certain locations to dig. Will have to telegraph dig spots. Hobo lends you a shovel that you use to dig up the shotgun. Need another item. Health pot. mana? pain killers. 

	were do you get pain killers? dealer?

	make the shotgun an item just like the shovel. it's in the vacant lot. draw it first. 

	The hobo mentions he dropped his shovel in the cemetery. You can access the cemetery without a gun. Should we delay spawning 
	zombies until you have talked to the hobo? and don't draw the shovel until then also. 

telegraph vacant lot location with a street light and a dialog box that pops up when over lot. 
Dialog boxes now pop up when player is over car, apartment, and vacant lot. 

You can now interact with NPCs by pressing up while next to them. Most of the game can be played with just the keyboard. just not the apartment. 

interactive tutorial to start the game. "Arrow keys or A, D to move" "Up or W to enter area"

what do you dig up in the vacant lot? The shotgun? pills? shot gun would make sense. You would need to get the shovel with just the pistol. It's a bit more challenging but very doable. Once you have the shotgun all the zombies are gone. We need another reason to go back to the cemetery. Dig up the key to the cemetery in the vacant lot with the shovel got from the cemetery.

we are running out of space in the inventory all ready. Need to space things out more. Maybe the hobo isn't there at the beginning of the game. Maybe an old lady looking for her lost cat, fluffy. The cat is in the tree. You need to talk to the cat and convince him to come down from the tree. Maybe you need to find some food at the gas station to get him down. Cat nip can be bought at the gas station. which requires you to go to work to get the money. which requires you to sleep to advance the day. Only once the day has been advanced say 2 days then the hobo shows up in his spot.

There is a portal in the graveyard that is summoning zombies. It needs to be closed some how. 

Fortune teller NPC. will give vague phrases about the future, based on a over complicated way of calculating which phrase. 
if the fortune teller says one thing, then the next thing is twice as likely to happen ect ect..get chatGPT to handle the details. 


"A shovel lost is a path revealed; seek it where the forgotten dwell." by ChatGPT

Old lady NPC

inside the cemetery is more graves. We show a layer of graves in front of the player. It slightly obscures the view. 

Dig up the cemetery key and use it on the door. Need dialog box above door in cemetery. "Locked\nNeeds key

use the same background for inner cemetery. Just put another layer in front. like the vacant lot its the cemetery from the opposite direction. So show the inside of the fence looking out. So just trees. what's inside cemetery interior? More zombies. ghosts. Skeletons. animated skele walk

taking drugs reveals secret path to new area. -chatGPT o1 preview

"NecroTech." company name found on id badge on a dead zombie. 

dead zombie body stays and is clickable. click or up key the dead zombie for id badge

Need a reason to back to apartment. Use computer to look up NecroTech? 

Fixed hobo glitch by setting riseTimer to 0 for non zombies. It was playing rise animation for NPCs when there was no such animation.

One you have the ID card, you can search "NecroTech" on the "internet" on your laptop in the apartment. This gives you an address, and adds another destination to the destinations menu on the car. It's NecroTech HQ. There are army guys with guns protecting the place. Break in and kill the CEO to win the game. 

Add a ghost to the cemetery

Add skip dialog 

move background (stars) on cemetery to the left 1024

make limited ammo for shotgun. global shells x

use ambient modular synth from you tube as the soundtrack. Bleak minimal just like the rest of the game. 

Ghost won't attack unless provoked. 

If you don't attack the ghost he gives a mission to find something for him. 

shotgun shells icon. digspot with shotgun shells. 

fortune teller is fucked. remove and start over. 
fixed fortune teller. She just displays a random fortune for 100 dollars. Leave it for now. 

Drugs allow you to see hidden door somewhere outside. Draw this hidden door. 

Hidden door leads to another parallax background image.Use existing art, bus stop drawing. or draw something new. Like what?
Outer space with planets in the background, parallax clouds roll by. What is the point of this new area? Maybe you can help the ghost character by visiting the astral plane and recovering a lost relic of some kind. What relic? A pocket watch, ring, amulet, 
Pocket watch seems like it fits. He lost his watch and is doomed to haunt the graveyard until it is returned. Maybe he comes back to life if you return the watch. 

What enemies could be in the astral plane. Maybe you will be running on top of clouds with a space scene in the background with ghosts attacking you. Maybe a skeleton NPC just because of Halloween. Animate a skeleton walking then. 

Implemented the astral plane. You access it by taking drugs and opening the magic door. I just drew parallax layers of clouds in the same color pallet. Consider a more technicolor palette. Drug shader effect stays on when in the astral realm. Consider a different shader, maybe the same glow shader with different parameters. 

The plan was, the ghost asks you to find his lost relic. He speaks in riddles and rhymes. Something about a door and an altered mind. Giving the hint that you need to take drug to find his lost relic. It's a bit obtuse. His lost relic is an old pocket watch. Why would you find a pocket watch in the astral realm. You need to fight a boss? A witch. A giant steam punk clockwork automaton. A giant spider. A disembodied head. A scare crow. 

Guns work on the astral plane. Need mini ghosts or spirits of some kind. Flying enemies. Diver bomb the player and are only able to be hit when diving down to player level. Crows? that circle. Just like rad city crows. Needs to be evil spirits or something that fits with the astral realm. 

what else. Implemented reverse road car headlights/break lights. light_scale = -1.0 // Negative scale to flip horizontally 

Had chatGPT come up with rhymes that the ghost says. I got a list of a million of them. Need to turn off ghost agro when leaving the area. Moved ghost to graveyard instead of cemetery. To spread things out more. 

Added notes to github, so there is a record of this madness. 

Added my own original background track. It's only 3:30 minutes long. Not long enough. gets repetative. Need another music track for when zombies are spawning, new song while in astral realm. Slow down play back when on drugs? Maybe add echo effect. Just have 2 different tracks. One for sober, one for drugged. Play the song in reverse and see how it sounds. 

Make your own mixer. Tracks can be playing without being heard? So we can fade from one to another and have it be lined up. 
Add seek function to sound manager.

added shovel pickup sound effect. 

bug on cemetery near shovel pickup. bullets get stopped by an invisible barrier some how. ** ghost is blocking bullets from beyond the grave.Ghost was set to active while outside of graveyard. **set ghost.isactive to false before setting it true when rendering graveyard. I think NPCs outside are set to active outside of outside? Doesn't seem to effect things. They don't stop bullets because they are not zombies or ghosts. What happens if you want pedestrian NPCs to get hit by bullets. I don't want that.  
 
leaving outside by car, car speed is still set to fast after return from cemetery

Gotta try a new song. current one is too...I don't know what. The beat gets in the way lets say. 

Needs to be like a ambient synth wave. Or like a solo acoustic guitar. and it plays a little riff every time you interact. Since we are also playing street noise it has to be minimal I think. take another stab at a super ambient no melody background swells. 

it takes all day to write a song. 

Astral Traders: Merchants who sell unique items or artifacts not available elsewhere.

Verticality. The player can some how move to higher platforms. floating platforms on the astral plane. Player takes doors that teleport the player to a higher platform. jump pads. jetpack. ability to fly. Maybe flight with very low gravity. 
"Press space bar to fly". flying animation. 

added another cloud layer. 

Added physics to player. Velocity, acceleration/deceleration, jump, gravity, isOnFloor ect. 

Do we just not allow jumping unless it's the astral plane? Or do we leave a weak jump and then a strong jump when in astral. 
I think weak jump, more player input is better even if it doesn't do anything. 

If the player jumps and shoots at the same time he dives like the matrix. Dodge roll? invincibility frames as a way to slide by zombies without being hit. There is not enough combat to justify a mechanic like this. Are we making a platformer or an adventure game? Leave the jump for now and see what happens.

need sound when taking pills

when you receive the cemetery key, raiseZombies = true

Need another enemy. Flying enemy? crows wont work. They are too dark. outline them. red eyes. act like swarm












